Mike Hanling
R29: 5.1, 5.3, 5.4

Key Points:
  temporal locality: the principle stating that if a data location is
  referenced then it will tend to be referenced again soon.

  spatial locality: the locality principle stating that if a data
  location is referenced, data locations with nearby addresses will tend
  to be referenced soon.

  memory hierarchy: a structure that uses multiple levels of memories;
  as the distance from the processor increases, the size of the memories
  and the access time both increase.

  Block (or line): the minimum unit of information that can be either
  present or not present in a cache.

  hit rate: the fraction of memory accesses found in a  level of the
  memory hierarchy

  miss rate: the fraction of memory accesses not found in a  level of
  the memory hierarchy

  hit time: the time required to access a level of the memory hierarchy,
  including the time needed to determine whether the access is a hit or
  a miss.

  miss penalty: the time required to fetch a block into a level of the
  memory hierarchy from the lower level, including the time to access
  the block, transmit it fro one level to the other, insert it in the
  level that experienced the miss, and then pass the block to the
  requestor.

  direct-mapped cache: a cache structure in which each memory location
  is mapped to exactly one location in the cache.

  tag: a field in a table used for a memory hierarchy that contains the
  address information required to identify whether the associated block
  in the hierarchy corresponds to a requested word.

  valid bit: a filed in the tables of a memory hierarchy that indicates
  tat the associated block in the hierarchy contains valid data.

  cache miss: a request for the data from the cache that cannot be
  filled because the data is not present in the cache.

  write-through: a scheme in which writes always update both the cache
  and the next lower level of the memory hierarchy, ensuring that data
  is always consistent between the two.

  write buffer: a queue that holds data while the data is waiting to be
  written to memory

  write-back: a scheme that handles writes by updating values only to
  the block in the cache, then writing the modified black to the lower
  level of the hierarchy when the block is replaced.

  split cache: a scheme in which a level of the memory hierarchy is
  composed of two independent caches that operate in parallel with each
  other, with one handling instructions and one handling data.

  fully associative cache: a cache structure in which a block can be
  placed in any location in the cache.

  set associative cache: a cache that has a fixed number of locations
  (at least two) where each block can be placed.

  Least recently used (LRU): a replacement scheme in which the block
  replaced is the one that has been unused for the longest time.

  multilevel cache: a memory hierarchy with multiple levels of caches,
  rather than just a cache and main memory

What Confuses Me:
